Maud, where are you?
I miss you.
I'll take you out soon, Star.
Okay then.
What is it boy?
Maud's wrist band?
Oh, what? Who did that?
Now, that's what I call a birthday party.
Look at my room.
What's happening? I can't see.
My eyes aren't working!
Oh.
Oh!
Whose cat is that?
Um, what's that on the floor?
Instant cake potion.
I thought you said you made my cake
the non-magical way.
My cat's not in there,
is she?
My cat? Arcana?
She chased a mouse up here
and now I can't find her.
Nope. I haven't seen her, Miss Drill.
Well, if she turns up
hold on to her for me.
Or try.
Won't sit still for a second
that one.
Not a problem at the moment.
Oh, come to help out ahead of lessons?
I've still got outbuildings to do.
Mum, have you seen Maud?
Nobody's spoken to her since yesterday.
Hmm.
Or Ethel, or Felicity.
Well, they can't be far away.
It's just that, Maud had this crazy idea
that you might still be magical.
If I'm still magic, then where's
my never-ending ice cream?
Sorry, Mum.
Why don't you go and look for Maud,
and Enid can stay here and help me
with the outbuildings?
Okay.
-Here you go.
-Thanks.
That was a bit cheeky.
What you were getting at, Enid.
Just going for more volunteers.
Enid?
I'm sure they weren't there before.
Maud.
It can't be you.
Mum gave up her magic, I saw her.
I...
Felicity?
Miss Bat.
Miss Tapioca.
Miss Cackle, I wanted to talk to you
about extending the art curriculum.
I'm sorry, Miss Hubble. I have just
woken up to some alarming reports.
It seems we are missing pupils and staff.
Yes, but about the curriculum.
Miss Hubble, it will have to wait!
Miss T will definitely know
how to fix this.
She's not here.
Must have tried transporting herself
to the shop.
So, as there's no breakfast,
you could at least share your cake.
This cake, it's...
It's for Miss Drill.
How come? She's had her birthday.
-It's--
-It's her leaving gift.
Miss Drill's leaving?
Um, well...
Miss Drill's one of the best teachers,
and one of my best customers.
I can't believe it.
Leaving gift?
Miss Hardbroom!
Yes?
The wishing star...
it didn't get broken.
I took it.
What?
I used it to make my mum magical.
I thought she had given up her powers...
...but I was wrong
and now she's turning people tiny
and putting them into her clay model
and I don't know why she'd do that.
Miss Hardbroom?
I'm sorry.
It's really them, isn't it,
Miss Hardbroom?
But you can get them out again, can't you?
The neutralizing spell.
No magic will work here
until it is lifted.
My mum did that?
You fail to understand what is happening.
Magic given to a non-magical person
is almost impossibly powerful.
Like a runaway train.
But then we tell her to take it off again.
It's my mum, she'll listen.
She will not.
You have no idea what you have done.
You must see it with your own eyes.
See what, Miss Hard--
Who's that meant to be?
To answer that I must tell you
of another young witch.
-A witch named Joy.
-Miss Hardbroom, we have--
Magic came easily to Joy.
So easily she believed she knew better
than other witches.
She believed that the code
did not apply to her.
In particular the warning to stay away
from the non-magical world.
Joy was drawn to the simple things
which she had never known.
Ice cream, music
and most of all...
dancing.
Today we can lift the spell which
makes us invisible to ordinary people.
Back then it was impossible.
So, Joy found herself enchanted
by the non-magical world,
but all alone.
No one could see her.
Until the day that she met...
Indigo Moon.
Out of the way,
get out of the way!
No brakes, get out of the way!
-You can see me?
-Woah!
Are you alright?
Oi!
Run!
Get back here!
Why was he chasing you?
Oh...
just because I do magic tricks
for the tourists for pennies.
Come on.
This is where you live?
No. It's just my den.
Now you see it.
Now you don't.
Oh, but...
What's that in your pocket?
Okay, needs some practice.
That's supposed to be magic?
Hey, magic's real,
as long as you believe in it.
So that's how you can see me.
She and Indigo Moon
became the best of best friends.
And they swore that nothing
would ever separate them.
And then...
the teachers found out.
They allowed Joy to stay at Cackle's
on one condition:
She be magically confined there
from that day on.
I feel very sorry for her, Miss Hardbroom,
but why is that important right now?
Because, Mildred Hubble,
one half-term
when Joy was more lonely than ever,
she hatched a plan.
If she could not go to Indigo...
then Indigo would come to her.
Just as you did,
she stole a wishing star.
And just as you did,
she used it to cast
the most forbidden spell of all.
Bring this loneliness to an end
and make a witch out of my friend.
At first
it was wonderful...
but the spell is forbidden for a reason.
Indie!
Careful!
Magic is too much for non-magicals.
They're not tricks, this is real!
Indie, stop it!
Indie, come back!
Indie!
Roll up, roll up, ladies and gentlemen!
Today, I'm going to make
an entire castle disappear.
Indie, there are people in there.
A feat of magical strength,
never before seen.
Indie?
What's happening?
Joy?
Indigo, come back!
Please!
That's Indigo Moon?
That is really her?
Are you saying that's
what's going to happen to my mum?
I am telling you,
so that you are prepared.
I am telling you, so that you know
you are not the only one
who has made this grievous mistake.
I don't believe it.
It's just a story
and that is just a statue.
It is the truth.
I know.
How do you know, Miss Hardbroom?
Because, Mildred Hubble...
my middle name is Hecate.
My first name...
is Joy.
I learnt my lesson.
Never break the Witches' Code .
I cut myself off from my witch friends,
including Miss Pentangle.
I continued to be confined
to the academy
and its grounds.
I have lived with my guilt for 30 years.
I will endeavor to help you
to do the same.
There is nothing we can do
for your mother.
No.
No!
Feather of eagle, tear of bat,
turn now back into a cat.
Dandelion and fenny snake,
no longer shall you be a cake.
Lemon sour and apple tasty,
be a moggy, not a pastry.
What?
I'm desperate, okay?
Just letting you know the plans.
What plans?
For Miss Drill's leaving party.
No, no, I don't think that's a good idea.
Why not?
Because...
She's been fired.
What?
I am not having that.
Shouldn't you be in class?
Mum. I don't understand.
I thought you gave up your magic.
Well.
It's just so good.
You can have anything you want.
And you want to trap my friends
in a clay prison?
You see, the thing is,
all my life I have had to put up with
so many little annoyances.
Rudeness, lateness, selfishness.
Well, no more.
Any of that, and it's whoosh...
into Ms Hubble's detention.
Permanently.
But... But why? I--
We are going to get this place
running our way, Mildred.
I've already started making improvements
to  the Witches' Code, look.
Mum, you sound barmy. Stop.
You see, if only they'd listened to us,
these witches would be a lot better off.
How many times have we saved them,
hey?
Going right back
to great-great-great-granny Mirabelle.
Mirabelle.
Of course.
Mildred?
Mildred!
It's starting.
Mildred.
Save Miss Drill!
Right. This stops now.
Mabel!
Everyone! You can't do this.
Why not?
Because, Miss Drill doesn't know
herself yet...
That she's been fired. Okay?
We only know because we overheard
Miss Cackle in the corridor.
Start your warm ups, girls.
Mirabelle!
Are you there?
Tell me you did not confront
your mother in her present state.
Miss Hardbroom, this is my family tree.
My ancestor Mirabelle lives here.
She only ever spoke due to glitching magic
caused by the Founding Stone disaster.
She will not speak now.
Excuse me...
young lady!
I have over 600 years
of witching experience.
I do know some tricks.
Mirabelle, Mum's in danger.
I might have turned her magical
and now I need to know
how to stop her from turning to stone.
Oh, Mildred.
You don't do things by halves, do you?
-Never.
-Do you know how?
We need to hurry.
Mum's already started to change.
Well, of course I know, Mildred.
Remembering what I know, however,
that is another matter.
Try, Mirabelle, please try.
Let me see.
Pip of apple...
No, no, that's for my arthritis.
Toe of snake...
Doesn't even make sense.
Come on, you can do this.
You can do this, come on.
Ah!
Shell of snail, scales of python.
Branch of ivy, rarest lichen.
Mix them up and may this potion,
let those transfixed regain their motion.
That's the cure.
Thank you, Mirabelle.
Rarest lichen?
The magical kind.
Found only on the tallest tree
in forests surrounding magical academies.
- Oh, yes!
- Mildred?
-Go now.
-What about you, Miss Hardbroom?
Go.
Ms Hubble.
What you have done is in breach
of every rule in the Code.
I must insist that you give up
your magic this instant.
Oh, do one, HB.
Mildred?
Hope that's enough.
Mildred.
Remember the golden rule?
Mum knows best.
Mum knows best!
I can't talk right now, girls.
I'm waiting for Miss Cackle.
Miss Drill, there's something
we need to tell you before you do.
It all started when we turned your cat
into a cake.
Scales of python.
Branch of ivy.
Rarest lichen.
Mum, give me that back, please.
Why? So you can take away my magic?
That is not what I'm trying to do.
I'm trying to save you
from being turned to stone.
Oh, lies now, is it?
I'm so disappointed in you, Mildred.
You know, I think some time
in that sculpture might do you good.
No.
No, no, no, Mum!
You're not thinking straight, Mum.
You're not you.
Look, Mum.
Look!
Us, before all this began.
Look, Mum.
Do you remember the time
that I left Ted in the caravan
and we had to drive back like 200 miles
just to get him?
Or the time I gave you a haircut
while you were still asleep?
That was magical, Mum.
My old mum was so, so magical.
Mildred.
What am I doing?
Mum, quick.
Mildred.
Rarest lichen.
Mix them up and let this potion,
let those transfixed regain their motion.
I can't believe you'd leave her alone
in that condition!
We're sorry, Miss Drill. We really are.
You had better hope I can find
a way to change her back.
Arcana.
How?
All those silly fibs for nothing.
One lie leads to another, girls.
You should have told me the truth
at the very start.
But as you did the right thing in the end,
I will overlook it this time.
But I will not overlook that
there has been a party in this room.
Either you can explain that
to Miss Hardbroom,
or it's extra cross country.
For all three of you!
I always hated art.
Don't panic.
I'm fine now.
I'm so sorry.
Millie!
Next time I'll listen to you.
I'll believe that when I see it.
Miss Cackle,
this started because Mildred Hubble
broke the  Witches' Code.
-And gave her--
-Thank you, Ethel.
I am aware.
I was honestly just coming back
to undo the spell.
The lichen spell must have worked
the same on them as it did on you.
All out.
Please.
I blame myself.
Miss Hardbroom was right.
I should never have hired
a non-magical teacher.
Obviously, you will need to leave
the premises today.
Miss Cackle?
And you will give up your magic.
Miss Cackle, no.
She's got it in control now. I cured her.
She may have been saved
from turning to stone,
but we cannot know that she is in control.
She is. She's in control.
You can't do this!
You are very close to leaving
this academy with your mother.
I think I can remember.
Take away this precious gift,
the magic which I cast adrift.
I freely end my enchanted hours,
and relinquish now my witches' powers.
It'll be okay.
We don't have to do everything together,
do we?
Hey.
You have got the most amazing future
ahead of you.
You don't need me with you here.
You've got me in here.
It's not the same.
You being a witch,
and me being just a regular mum.
It's not growing apart.
It's growing up.
And whenever you need
your non-magical mum,
she'll be there, like that.
Higher than a broomstick,
faster than a transportation spell,
and that's the most magical thing ever,
isn't it?
Well met, Mildred Hubble.
Well met, Mum.
Come here.
Hey, and listen--
Your mother is now home.
She had lingered long enough.
What about me, Miss Hardbroom?
Miss Cackle is furious.
It is only because she knows that you are
not the first person to make this mistake,
that you will be allowed to stay.
Did you speak up for me?
Miss Hardbroom,
I didn't use all the lichen potion.
There's still enough left to save
Indigo Moon the same way we saved my mum.
It is against the Code
for non-magicals to have magic.
I have not broken the Code
since I was a child.
But we could have saved her!
Her magic made her a danger
to the entire witching world.
We cannot take that chance again.
-She was your best friend--
-She was Joy's best friend.
I am no longer Joy.
I do not want to hear
the name, Indigo Moon...
ever again.